On Demand Egress Gateways post (#8423)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2020/on-demand-egress-gateways/index.md

---
title: Proxying legacy services using Istio egress gateways 

> subtitle: Deploy mesh egress gateways independently to allow secure connectivity between legacy and internet services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
subtitle: Deploy mesh egress gateways independently to allow secure connectivity between legacy and internet services.
```
```suggestion
subtitle: Deploy mesh egress gateways independently to allow secure connectivity between legacy and internet services.
```
```suggestion
subtitle: Deploy mesh egress gateways independently to allow secure connectivity between legacy and internet services.
```
```suggestion
subtitle: Deploy mesh egress gateways independently to allow secure connectivity between legacy and internet services
```

---
title: On Demand Egress Gateways
subtitle: Deploy Egress Gateways independently in a seamless way
description: Deploying Egress Gateways independently to have fine-grained control of egress communication.

> publishdate: 2020-11-07

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
publishdate: 2020-12-11
```

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: ServiceEntry
metadata:
  name: "httpbin-egress"
  namespace: "httpbin"
spec:
  hosts:
  - "httpbin.org"
  location: MESH_EXTERNAL
  ports:
  - number: 443
    name: https
    protocol: TLS
  resolution: DNS
{{< /text >}}

#### Destination Rule

Create a `DestinationRule` to allow TLS origination for egress traffic as explained in the [documentation](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-tls-origination/#tls-origination-for-egress-traffic)

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1alpha3
kind: DestinationRule
metadata:
  name: "httpbin-egress"
  namespace: "httpbin"
spec:
  host: "httpbin.org"
  subsets:
  - name: "http-egress-subset"
    trafficPolicy:
      loadBalancer:
        simple: ROUND_ROBIN
      portLevelSettings:
      - port:
          number: 443
        tls:
          mode: SIMPLE
{{< /text >}}

#### Peer Authentication

To secure the service-to-service, you need to enforce mTLS:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: "security.istio.io/v1beta1"
kind: "PeerAuthentication"
metadata:
  name: "httpbin-egress"
  namespace: "httpbin"
spec:
  mtls:
    mode: STRICT
{{< /text >}}

### Test

> Verify that everything in `Istio` works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Verify that your objects were all specified correctly:
```

#### Service-to-service access

Test the egress gateway from inside the cluster deploying the sleep service. This is useful when you design failover.

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl label namespace httpbin istio-injection=enabled --overwrite
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -n httpbin -f  {{< github_file >}}/1.8.0/samples/sleep/sleep.yaml
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl -n httpbin "$(kubectl get pod -n httpbin -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})" -- curl -vvv http://<my-hostname>/status/200
{{< /text >}}

Where `<my-hostname>` is the hostname to access through the `my-ingressgateway`.

{{< tip >}}
Notice that `http` (and not `https`) is the protocol used for service-to-service communication. This is due to `Istio` handling the `TLS` itself. Developers do not care anymore about certificates management. **Fancy!**
{{< /tip >}}

{{< quote >}}
Eat, Sleep, Rave, **REPEAT!**
{{< /quote >}}

Now it is time to create a second, third and fourth egress gateway pointing to another external service.

## Final thoughts

{{< quote >}}
Is the juice worth the squeeze?
{{< /quote >}}

> `Istio` might seem complex to configure. But, definitely, it is worthy due to the huge set of benefits it brings to your services (extra **Olé!** for `kiali`).
> 
> The way `Istio` is developed allows, with a small effort, to satisfy uncommon requirements like the one presented in this article.
> 
> To finish, just to mention that `Istio`, as a good cloud native technology, does not require a full set of engineers to be maintained. For example, our current team is composed of 3 engineers.
> 
> To discuss more about `Istio` and its possibilities, you can find us in:
> 
> - `Antonio Berben` ([`twitter @antonio_berben`](https://twitter.com/antonio_berben))
> - `Piotr Ciążyński` ([`LinkedIn`](https://www.linkedin.com/in/piotr-ciazynski))
> - `Kristián Patlevič` ([`LinkedIn`](https://www.linkedin.com/in/patlevic))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio might seem complex to configure. But it is definitely worthwhile, due to the huge set of benefits it brings to your services (with an extra **Olé!** for Kiali).

The way Istio is developed allows us, with minimal effort, to satisfy uncommon requirements like the one presented in this article.

To finish, I just wanted to point out that Istio, as a good cloud native technology, does not require a large team to maintain. For example, our current team is composed of 3 engineers.

To discuss more about `Istio` and its possibilities, please contact one of us:

- [Antonio Berben](https://twitter.com/antonio_berben)
- [Piotr Ciążyński](https://www.linkedin.com/in/piotr-ciazynski)
- [Kristián Patlevič](https://www.linkedin.com/in/patlevic)
```

---

> title: On Demand Egress Gateways
> subtitle: Deploy Egress Gateways independently in a seamless way
> description: Deploying Egress Gateways independently to have fine-grained control of egress communication.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Proxying legacy services using Istio egress gateways 
subtitle: Deploy mesh egress gateways independently to allow secure connectivity between legacy and internet services.
description: Deploy multiple Istio egress gateways independently to have fine-grained control of egress communication from the mesh.
```

Reviewer: Now we're cooking.

publishdate: 2020-12-14
attribution: Antonio Berben (Deutsche Telekom - PAN-NET)
keywords: [configuration,egress,gateway,external,service]
target_release: 1.8.0
---

> At [Deutsche Telekom Pan-Net](https://pan-net.cloud/aboutus), we have embraced Istio as the umbrella to cover our services.
> 
> Unfortunately, there are services which have not yet been migrated to Kubernetes, or cannot be. 
> 
> We can set Istio up as a proxy service for these upstream services.
> 
> The reason for using Istio is that you can benefit from the service mesh capabilities like Authorization/Authentication, traceability, observability while your services stand as they are.
> 
> At the end of this article there is a hands-on exercise where you will simulate the scenario. In the exercise, an upstream service hosted at [https://httpbin.org](https://httpbin.org) will be proxied by an Istio egress gateway.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At [Deutsche Telekom Pan-Net](https://pan-net.cloud/aboutus), we have embraced Istio as the umbrella to cover our services. Unfortunately, there are services which have not yet been migrated to Kubernetes, or cannot be.  

We can set Istio up as a proxy service for these upstream services. This allows us to benefit from capabilities like authorization/authentication, traceability and observability, even while legacy services stand as they are.

At the end of this article there is a hands-on exercise where you can simulate the scenario. In the exercise, an upstream service hosted at [https://httpbin.org](https://httpbin.org) will be proxied by an Istio egress gateway.
```

---
title: On Demand Egress Gateways
subtitle: Deploy Egress Gateways independently in a seamless way
description: Deploying Egress Gateways independently to have fine-grained control of egress communication.
publishdate: 2020-11-07

> attribution: Antonio Berben (At Deutsche Telekom - PAN-NET)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
attribution: Antonio Berben (Deutsche Telekom - PAN-NET)
```

keywords: [configuration,egress,gateway,external,service]
target_release: 1.8.0
---

> At [`Deutsche Telekom::PAN-NET`](https://pan-net.cloud/aboutus), we have embraced `Istio` as the umbrella to cover our services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At [Deutsche Telekom Pan-Net](https://pan-net.cloud/aboutus), we have embraced Istio as the umbrella to cover our services.
```

You've used ` ``foo`` ` throughout, which I am going to remove a lot of.

Author: Interesting. I swear It was part of the guidelines, at least in 1.7. But I don't find it anymore :man_shrugging:  . That was the reason I added the `back-quote`. Sorry for the confusion

> 
> Unfortunately, there are services which have not been migrated to `kubernetes` yet or, simply, cannot be. Therefore, those ones have to remain as external services.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Unfortunately, there are services which have not yet been migrated to Kubernetes, or cannot be. 

```

removing part about external services as it makes it seem like they're a named thing called an ExternalService which we haven't defined yet

## Scenario

> If you are familiar with Istio, one of the offered ways to connect to external services is through [Egress Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway/).
> 
> However, if you want to satisfy the [Single-responsibility principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-responsibility_principle), you will need to deploy multiple and individual (1..N) `Egress Gateways` as the picture shows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are familiar with Istio, one of the methods offered to connect to external services is through an [egress gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway/).

However, if you want to satisfy the [single-responsibility principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-responsibility_principle), you will need to deploy multiple and individual (1..N) egress gateways, as this picture shows:
```

{{< image width="75%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./on-demand-egress-gateway-overview.svg"
    alt="Overview multiple Egress Gateways"
    caption="Overview multiple Egress Gateways"
    >}}

> With this model, one `Egress Gateway` is in charge of only one upstream service.
> 
> Although the `IstioOperator` spec allows you to deploy multiple `Egress Gateways`, the manifest can become unmanageable.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this model, one egress gateway is in charge of exactly one upstream service.

Although the `IstioOperator` spec allows you to deploy multiple egress gateways, the manifest can become unmanageable:
```

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
[...]
spec:
    egressGateways:
    - name: egressgateway-1
      enabled: true
    - name: egressgateway-2
      enabled: true
    [egressgateway-3, egressgateway-4 ,...]
    - name: egressgateway-N
      enabled: true
[...]
{{< /text >}}

> As a benefit of decoupling Egress Getaways from IstioOperator manifest, you have enabled the possibility of setting up **custom readiness probes** to have both services (gateway and upstream service) aligned.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a benefit of decoupling egress getaways from the `IstioOperator` manifest, you have enabled the possibility of setting up custom readiness probes to have both services (Gateway and upstream Service) aligned.
```

Link readiness probe to something - Kubernetes docs?

As well, you can apply the sidecar pattern to inject, for example, OPA into the pod to perform authorization with complex rules ([OPA envoy plugin](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/opa-envoy-plugin)).

> 

Reviewer: I am not sure if you are saying "you can also do this", or "instead, you could do X" - you haven't talked about the sidecar pattern yet.

Author: I think it is better to rephrase it. What about: 
```
You can also inject OPA as a sidecar into the pod to perform authorization with complex rules ([OPA envoy plugin](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/opa-envoy-plugin)).
```

{{< image width="75%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./on-demand-egress-gateway-authz.svg"
    alt="Authorization with OPA and `healthcheck` to external service"
    caption="Authorization with OPA and `healthcheck` to external"
    >}}

At this point, you might be convinced that this is the right path to go.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe say something like "Let's look at how you can implement this pattern."

Author: Sounds better. thanks!

## Solution

> There are several ways to achieve this task:

Reviewer: you generally achieve a _solution/outcome,_ or _perform_ a task

Author: :sweat_smile: . Done!

- Create multiple `IstioOperator` (simple solution)
- Create an operator (recommended for a second iteration in the development process)

At **PAN-NET**, we have created our own operator with the [Operator SDK - Ansible type](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/).

> However, you want to start simple. Thus, better you start with the `IstioOperator` option.

Reviewer: Is having more than one `IstioOperator` a better option than having one `IstioOperator` with multiple Gateways defined?

Perhaps use Operator with capital O throughout.

It seems that you're telling me that you're about to show the `IstioOperator` method in this post, but you're saying you built a more advanced method.  When will we hear about that?  This post, or a part 2?

Author: What about this:

> There are several ways to perform this task, but here you will find how to define multiple Operators and deploy the generated resources.

To not mention anything which is not covered in the post.

{{< quote >}}
Yes! `Istio 1.8.0` introduced the possibility to have fine-grained control over the objects that `IstioOperator` deploys. This gives you the opportunity to patch them as you wish. Exactly what you need to deploy on demand `Egress Gateways`.

> {{< /quote >}}

Reviewer: Does this invalidate everything you say below?

(We now seem to have three methods to solve this: the one you propose, the new 1.8 method, and the mysterious Operator method you actually use!)

Author: As commented above, with the new proposal, nothing else is mentioned so that reader is focused only in the proposed solution.

The reason of this sentence is that: yes! The version of the post was for 1.7. And now, with 1.8, it was very grateful to find out that you can deploy multiple Operators (although you have to generate the manifests upfront)

In the following section you will  deploy an `Egress Gateway` to connect to an external service: `httpbin` ([https://httpbin.org/](https://httpbin.org/))

At the end, you will have:

{{< image width="75%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./on-demand-egress-gateway-communicatin.svg"
    alt="Communication"
    caption="Communication"
    >}}

## Hands on

### Prerequisites

> - [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/) (`kubernetes in docker`. Perfect for local development)
> - [Istioctl](/docs/setup/getting-started/#download)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [kind](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/) (Kubernetes-in-Docker - perfect for local development)
- [istioctl](/docs/setup/getting-started/#download)
```

#### Kind

{{< warning >}}

> If you use `kind`, do not forget to set up `service-account-issuer` and `service-account-signing-key-file` as described below. Otherwise, `Istio` installation might complain.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use `kind`, do not forget to set up `service-account-issuer` and `service-account-signing-key-file` as described below. Otherwise, Istio may not install correctly.
```

{{< /warning >}}

> {{< text yaml >}}

Reviewer: This snippet needs some instruction on how to use it ("Save this as something.yaml"?)

Author: Done.

> Save this as `config.yaml`.

    kind: ClusterConfiguration
    metadata:
      name: config
    apiServer:
      extraArgs:
        "service-account-issuer": "kubernetes.default.svc"
        "service-account-signing-key-file": "/etc/kubernetes/pki/sa.key"
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kind create cluster --name <my-cluster-name> --config <path-to-config-file>
{{< /text >}}

Where `<my-cluster-name>` is the name for the cluster and `<path-to-config-file>` is the config defined in the block above.

#### Istio Operator with Istioctl

Install the `Istio Operator`

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl operator init --watchedNamespaces=istio-operator
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl create ns istio-system
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f <my-istiooperator-manifest>
{{< /text >}}

Where `<my-istiooperator-manifest>` is the path to the a file with following content:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
metadata:
  name: istio-operator
  namespace: istio-operator
spec:
  profile: default
  tag: 1.8.0
  meshConfig:
    accessLogFile: /dev/stdout
    outboundTrafficPolicy:
      mode: REGISTRY_ONLY
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}

> Notice that `outboundTrafficPolicy.mode: REGISTRY_ONLY` to block all communications which are not specified by a `ServiceEntry` resource.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`outboundTrafficPolicy.mode: REGISTRY_ONLY` is used to block all external communications which are not specified by a `ServiceEntry` resource.
```

{{< /tip >}}

### Deploy Egress Gateway

The steps for this task assume:

- The service is installed under the namespace: `httpbin`.
- The service name is: `http-egress`.

> As it is mentioned before, `Istio 1.8.0` introduced the possibility to fine-grain control the `Istio` resources. Now, you will take advantage of it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio 1.8 introduced the possibility to apply overlay configuration, to give fine-grain control over the created resources.
```

Is that correct?

Create a file with following content:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
spec:
  profile: empty
  tag: 1.8.0
  namespace: httpbin
  components:
    egressGateways:
    - name: httpbin-egress
      enabled: true
      label:
        app: istio-egressgateway
        istio: egressgateway
        custom-egress: httpbin-egress
      k8s:
        overlays:
        - kind: Deployment
          name: httpbin-egress
          patches:
          - path: spec.template.spec.containers[0].readinessProbe
            value:
              failureThreshold: 30
              exec:
                command:
                  - /bin/sh
                  - -c
                  - curl http://localhost:15021/healthz/ready && curl https://httpbin.org/status/200
              initialDelaySeconds: 1
              periodSeconds: 2
              successThreshold: 1
              timeoutSeconds: 1
  values:
    gateways:
      istio-egressgateway:
        runAsRoot: true
{{< /text >}}

{{< tip >}}

> Notice the block under `overlays`. You are patching the default `egressgateway` to deploy only that component with the new `readinessProbe`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Notice the block under `overlays`. You are patching the default `egressgateway` to deploy only that component with the new `readinessProbe`.
```

{{< /tip >}}

> Create a `namespace` where you will install the `Egress Gateway`
> 
> {{< tip >}}
> Remember that we assume *namespace = httpbin*)
> {{< /tip >}}
> 
> {{< text bash >}}
> $ kubectl create ns httpbin
> {{< /text >}}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Create the namespace where you will install the egress gateway:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl create ns httpbin
{{< /text >}}
```

As it is described in the [documentation](/docs/setup/install/istioctl/#customize-kubernetes-settings), you can deploy several `IstioOperator` resources. However, they have to be pre-parsed and then applied to the cluster.

{{< text bash >}}
$ istioctl manifest generate -f <path-to-egress-file> | kubectl apply -f -
{{< /text >}}

Where `<path-to-egress-file>` is the path where you have saved the new `IstioOperator` CR.

### Istio configuration

> Now you will set up `Istio` to connect to the external service [https://httpbin.org](https://httpbin.org)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now you will configure Istio to allow connections to the external service at [https://httpbin.org](https://httpbin.org).
```

(I'm assuming you're talking about the hosted version, not a locally running httpbin pod)

#### Certificate for TLS

> How to generate the certificate is explained in the [documentation](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress/#generate-client-and-server-certificates-and-keys).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How to generate a certificate is explained in the [Istio ingress documentation](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/ingress/secure-ingress/#generate-client-and-server-certificates-and-keys).
```

{{< text bash >}}
$ openssl req -x509 -sha256 -nodes -days 365 -newkey rsa:2048 -subj '/O=example Inc./CN=<my-hostname>' -keyout example.com.key -out example.com.crt
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ openssl req -out httpbin.example.com.csr -newkey rsa:2048 -nodes -keyout httpbin.example.com.key -subj "/CN=<my-hostname>/O=httpbin organization"
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ openssl x509 -req -days 365 -CA example.com.crt -CAkey example.com.key -set_serial 0 -in httpbin.example.com.csr -out httpbin.example.com.crt
{{< /text >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl create -n istio-system secret tls <my-secret-name> --key=httpbin.example.com.key --cert=httpbin.example.com.crt
{{< /text >}}

Where `<my-secret-name>` is the name used later for the `Gateway` resource. `<my-hostname>` is the hostname used to access your service.

#### Ingress Gateway

Create a `Gateway` resource to operate ingress gateway to accept requests.

{{< warning >}}

> Make sure that only one `Gateway` spec matches the hostname. `Istio` gets confused when there are multiple Gateway definitions covering the same hostname.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Make sure that only one Gateway spec matches the hostname. Istio gets confused when there are multiple Gateway definitions covering the same hostname.
```

{{< /warning >}}

An example:

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: networking.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: Gateway
metadata:
  name: my-ingressgateway
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  selector:
    istio: ingressgateway
  servers:
  - hosts:
    - "<my-hostname>"
    port:
      name: http
      number: 80
      protocol: HTTP
    tls:
     httpsRedirect: true
  - port:
      number: 443
      name: https
      protocol: https
    hosts:
    - "<my-hostname>"
    tls:
      mode: SIMPLE
      credentialName: <my-secret-name>
{{< /text >}}

Where `<my-hostname>` is the hostname to access the service through the `my-ingressgateway` and `<my-secret-name>` is the secret which contains the certificate.

#### Egress Gateway

> Create another Gateway object, but this time to operate the `Egress Gateway` you have already installed with `helm`:

Reviewer: I haven't installed anything with Helm yet?

Author: From the version for istio 1.7. Sorry. Deleted

---
title: On Demand Egress Gateways
subtitle: Deploy Egress Gateways independently in a seamless way
description: Deploying Egress Gateways independently to fine-grained control of egress communication.
publishdate: 2020-10-28
attribution: Antonio Berben (At Deutsche Telekom - PAN-NET)
keywords: [configuration,egress,gateway,external,service]
target_release: 1.7.0
---

At [`Deutsche Telekom::PAN-NET`](https://pan-net.cloud/aboutus), we have embraced `Istio` as the umbrella to cover our services.

Unfortunately, there are services which have not been migrated to `kubernetes` yet or, simply, cannot be. Therefore, those ones have to remain as external services.

## Scenario

If you are familiar with Istio, one of the offered ways to connect to external services is through [Egress Gateway](/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/egress-gateway/).

> However, if you want to satisfy the [Single-responsibility principle](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Single-responsibility_principle), you will need to deploy multiple and individual (1..N) `Egress Gateways` as the picture shows.

Reviewer 2: Is this really true? Can't you use a single egress gateway, just with multiple `Gateway` resources, to achieve this?

Author: Hi @frankbu , thank you for taking the time to read the article.
You can. It is true. And if the goal is to have single responsibility from the point of view of one egress for all egress communications, it makes sense.

But,

Making the story short: it is like monolith and microservices. Yes, you can do everything in one. But in some scenarios, it might not be very convenient, right?

Long story: Now, if the intention is to really apply single responsibility, and only one egress application per external service (or small meaningful group of services), then you have the two options described in the article: 1. Define them in the IstioOperator manifest (can become quite big). 2. Create your own set of egress services (what is in the hand-on).

As advantage of option 2, like the article explains, it is that, then, you have full control of the deployment object, and you can apply sidecar as your wish. One of the pictures shows that you would be able to add an OPA sidecar to integrate with OPA for AuthZ purposes. Therefore, your istio world and possibilities expands to infinite! :smile:

Let me know what you think. Thanks

Although the `IstioOperator` spec allows you to deploy multiple `Egress Gateways`, the manifest can become unmanageable.

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: install.istio.io/v1alpha1
kind: IstioOperator
[...]
spec:
    egressGateways:
    - name: egressgateway-1
      enabled: true
    - name: egressgateway-2
      enabled: true
    [egressgateway-3, egressgateway-4 ,...]
    - name: egressgateway-N
      enabled: true
[...]
{{< /text >}}

As a benefit of decoupling Egress Getaways from IstioOperator manifest, you have enabled the possibility of setting up custom Liveness probes to have both services (gateway and upstream service) aligned.

As well, you can apply the sidecar pattern to inject, for example, OPA into the pod to perform authorization with complex rules ([OPA envoy plugin](https://github.com/open-policy-agent/opa-envoy-plugin)).

{{< image width="75%" ratio="45.34%"
    link="./on-demand-egress-gateway-authz.svg"
    alt="Authorization with OPA and `healthcheck` to external service"
    caption="Authorization with OPA and `healthcheck` to external"
    >}}

At this point, you might be convinced that this is the right path to go.

> Now, the problem is that `Istio` does not offer a `CRD` for `Egress Gateways`. **Pity!**

Reviewer 2: Isn't an `IstioOperator` with empty profile not that? https://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/setup/upgrade/gateways/#installation-with-istioctl

Author: Interesting! I did not try this yet. I will tomorrow.

But at first glance, I still miss the full control of the deployment object, I think. The possibility to manipulate the deployment to, for example, add sidecars (like OPA) is quite tempting, don't you think? :smile:

Reviewer 2: I realize that Istio is a moving target, so hard to keep up with new things 😄 but there's a pretty new feature to allow you to customize k8s settings in a component: http://localhost:1313/latest/docs/setup/install/istioctl/#customize-kubernetes-settings

It's used in one of our egress gateway tasks (see step 3) here: https://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/wildcard-egress-hosts/#setup-egress-gateway-with-sni-proxy

Author: Definitely Istio is moving fast (and it is great!). However, we can't even follow up on that pace. We moved from 1.5 to 1.6 to 1.7 and we decided to stop upgrading since we started spending more time on upgrades than on features :laughing: .

Regarding your links... it is great! That `overlays` is exactly what was needed. To be fair, it sounds a bit tricky since one is forced to not apply the `IstioOperator` manifest,  but to generate the final manifests and then `kubectl apply`. But, personally, I am glad to see that as part of the new version of Istio.

What is your recommendation regarding this post? Trying to adjust to `Istio 1.8`?

Appreciated your thoughts. Thanks!

Reviewer: Hi Antonio,

Istio 1.8 is coming out in a week or so, and this post would probably come out after that.  Would it be possible to update your post for 1.8?  If not completely, at least to say that it will be made easier by these new features.

Thanks,
Craig (steering/blog guy)

Reviewer: p.s. I hear you on the pace of upgrades

Reviewer 2: @antonioberben I would recommend at least one more upgrade to 1.8 before pausing, since 1.8 has improvements that I think are very helpful for your use case. We've also finally updated and tested (https://github.com/istio/istio.io/blob/master/README.md#testing-document-content) all of our [egress tasks](https://preliminary.istio.io/latest/docs/tasks/traffic-management/egress/), so I think they will now provide much better guidance for you.

Author: Tested. Great improvements in 1.8.0! :muscle: great job.
Regarding the date time the article was written, I have just kept the original. 
Please, if you have any other thoughts, let me know. Thank you!

Reviewer 2: It's best that the date be set to the day that the post goes live. So once it's ready to merge, I would request one last update (using the current date), and then we will approve/merge. But, if the post relies on 1.8 features, that should happen on a day after 1.8 is released, which should be this week.
